# Some notes on the Polyform Small Business License v1.0.0

This document is meant to address some of the questions that may arise from the Polyform Small
Business License v1.0.0. It is not a legally binding document, but rather a guide to help you
understand the license.

## Why this license?

Depending on your definition of open source, the Polyform Small Business License v1.0.0 may or may
not be considered an open source license. Under the definition of the Open Source Initiative (that,
to clarify, has no international jurisdiction), the Polyform Small Business License v1.0.0 is not an
open source license, but rather a source-available license. Under the definition of the Free
Software Foundation, the Polyform Small Business License v1.0.0 is not a free software license, but
rather a non-free software license.

We have a deep-rooted commitment to the principles of open source. We believe that open source is
not just a method of software development, but a movement that fosters innovation, collaboration,
and transparency. It empowers developers to share their work, build on each otherâ€™s ideas, and
collectively push the boundaries of what technology can achieve. However, recent trends have
highlighted a concerning pattern: large corporations are leveraging open source software to generate
substantial profits while contributing little to nothing back to the community. These corporations
benefit enormously from the hard work and dedication of open source developers, yet they often fail
to provide the financial support necessary to sustain these projects. This exploitation undermines
the very foundation of open source and threatens its future sustainability.

As a result of this imbalance, we are witnessing an increase in the abandonment of open source
projects. When developers are not adequately supported, they cannot maintain their projects, leading
to unaddressed security vulnerabilities and a lack of ongoing development. This poses significant
risks not only to the projects themselves but also to the countless other systems and applications
that depend on them. We believe there is a more equitable path forwardâ€”one that ensures the
sustainability of open source by aligning the interests of developers and users. By adopting the
Polyform Small Business License, we aim to create a model where small businesses can freely benefit
from our work, while larger entities that profit from it are encouraged to contribute back, ensuring
a healthier, more resilient open source ecosystem.

For the purposes of this project, open source is defined as software that is available for
individuals (but not necessarily companies or organizations) to use, modify, and contribute to, for
personal or non-commercial purposes. Furthermore, initiatives and new products are central to our
shared progress, so we believe that small and charitable organizations should be able to use open
source software as if they were individuals.

You can read more about the license on the
[Polyform website](https://polyformproject.org/licenses/small-business/1.0.0).

We are not lawyers, and this is not legal advice. However, to our understanding so far, if you don't
fall outside of the definition of a small business or a charitable organization, the license should
be roughly equivalent to an Apache 2.0 license.

## Implications

### For users of the software

A rough guide on how to interpret what the license means for you:

1. *Are you a charitable organization?* If so, the restrictions of the license do not apply to you.
   You may use the software as if it were open source software.

2. *Are you or are you working for an entity whose annual revenue exceeds $1 million USD (2019)
   adjusted for inflation?* Or is the company you work for controlled by a company that does? If so,
   the restrictions of the license do apply to you. You may not use the software unless granted
   explicit permission by the licensor.

   - *Note:* If you are an individual working on a project outside the scope of your employment or
     affiliation with such an entity, these restrictions do not apply to you.

   - We may, and most likely will, consider granting explicit permission to use the software in
     these cases, as long as you support this project in a way that is proportional to the value
     that you receive from it, and we consider that support suitable. If you fall in this category,
     please reach out to us.

   - If you recently entered this category, congratulations ðŸŽ‰. If you are still using the software,
     you may continue to do so for a grace period of 6 months. This would give you time to reach out
     to us and discuss you want to move forward. You have a few options:

     - You can stop using the software;

     - You can reach out to us and discuss the possibility of a licensing agreement, analogue to
       what was mentioned above. Note that none of your use of the software until your rights to do
       so ceased will be considered for the purposes of determining the value of your support; in
       other words, you will not be penalized for using the software before reaching this stage.

3. *Are you a small business?* In other words, an entity not covered by the above two points? If so,
   the restrictions of the license do not apply to you *currently*. However, if you grow to the
   point where you do fall under the restrictions, and want to continue using the software, you will
   need to reach out to us, and the above point will apply to you.

4. **If you are in breach of the license terms:**, you will be given a grace period of 32 days to
   rectify the breach without any further consequences. After this period, you will be considered to
   have breached the license, and the licensor may take action to enforce the license.

### For contributors

By submitting a PR to this project you agree to release the source code under the Polyform v1.0.0
Small Business License, or any future version of an equivalent Polyform License published by
Polyform
